Improve Get started section (#238)
axiomhq/docs: getting-started-guide/quickstart-using-sample-data.mdx

---
title: 'Quickstart using sample data'
excerpt: 'This page explains how to try out Axiom with sample data.'
sidebarTitle: Sample data
---

This page explains how to try out Axiom with sample data. It walks you through an example where you want to keep track of OpenTelemetry (OTel) traces with Axiom.

By following this page, you will:

1. Explore the structure of sample data.

> 1. Display stream of incoming data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Display a stream of incoming data.
```
For some reason this reads more naturally to me, but I also have no issue with your heading 'Display stream of incoming data' below. I think it's just because the article isn't being elided in the other steps in this list

1. Click the **Query** tab at the top of the page, and then click **Builder** in the top left. This enables you to query your data with a visual query builder.
1. In the **Dataset** section, select **otel-demo-traces** from the list of datasets.
1. In the **Where** section, click **+**.
1. Write **service.name == frontend**, and then press **Enter**.
1. Click **Run**.

You see all the traces for the Frontend service.

### Run an APL query

1. Click the **Query** tab at the top of the page, and then click **APL** in the top left. This enables you to query your data with the Axiom Processing Language (APL). For more information, see [Introduction to APL](/apl/introduction).
1. In the text field, enter the following:
    ```kusto
    ['otel-demo-traces']
    | where duration > 5ms
    | summarize count() by bin_auto(_time), ['service.name']
    ```
1. Click **Run**.

You see the number of requests taking longer than 5 ms for each service over time.

## 4. Visualize data

1. Click the **Dashboards** tab at the top of the page.
1. Click **OpenTelemetry Traces (otel-demo-traces)** in the list.

You see a dashboard that displays important information about the OTel traces.

> TODO from here

Reviewer: TODO for removal / actioning

> TODO from here

Author: ```suggestion
```

1. Name the dashboard and click **Create**.
1. Click **Add a chart**, and then click **Timeseries**.
1. In the **Dataset** section, select **otel-demo-traces**.
1. In the **Summarize** section, click **no group** to the right of **by**, and then select **service.name**.
1. Click **Save**.

You created a simple dashboard that displays the number of requests for each service over time.

## 6. Monitor data for issues

### Create notifier

1. Click the **Monitors** tab at the top of the page.
1. In the top left, click **Notifiers**, and then click **New notifier** on the top right.
1. In **Name**, enter **Slow requests notifier**.
1. In **Users**, enter your email address, and then click **+** on the right.
1. Click **Create**.

### Create monitor

1. In the top left, click **Monitors**, and then click **New monitor** on the top right.
1. Click **Threshold monitor**.
1. In **Check options**, enter `10000` as the value.
1. Click **+ Add notifier**, and then select **Email: Slow requests notifier**.
1. In the **APL** section, enter the following:
    ```kusto
    ['otel-demo-traces']
    | where duration > 5ms

>     | summarize count() by bin_auto(_time)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | summarize count() by bin(_time, 1m)
```
We warn users when they attempt to create monitors using automatic binning, because the preview experience can be misleading

    ```
1. Click **Create**.

> You created a monitor that automatically sends a notification to your email address if the number of requests taking longer than 5 ms is higher than 10,000 in ten minutes.

Reviewer: With the change to binning as above, then:
```suggestion
You created a monitor that automatically sends a notification to your email address if the number of requests taking longer than 5 ms is higher than 10,000 during a one minute period.
```
